Yes, could you tell us a little bit about your background you mentioned?
Yeah, I'm a librarian.
That's why, that's the reason why I'm not, my reaction, I not like computer system people.
I came here from the education ministry.
I was responsible for university libraries.
And...
I was asked to come here because I was an expert in planification, because where I was in the education ministry, we planned for new buildings for the university libraries in France, because we are very late in the university libraries.
We took about 10 or 20 years gap between the university libraries in France and Britain.
also with American libraries.
So we planned, we made a big plan of rebuilding libraries, and when I almost finished that plan, Philippe B. Laval, who is responsible for the general director of this library, asked me to come here to help him to have an overview of the whole planning of the project.
But before I worked in public libraries, university libraries, learning, I was in charge of training librarians.
So... Well, that's very... You see, that's so important that you come from a background of books.
Yes.
And not the modern technology.
So you bring a very profound respect for the book.
for the book as an object.
And for the public also.
And for the public.
And I think this is, you know, because I've seen places in the United States where these people are not librarians at all, but they're computer experts.
Now, you mentioned you taught in library school.
Yes, I study philosophy, and we have a library school in France open to people who have an academic degree.
But here, I have with me a computer expert.
I'm not alone.
Oh, sure.
But they answer to you.
I'm responsible for strategic choices with them and with the general.
It's the idea of to operate the system, to make good choice on a technical viewpoint.
I have computer experts.
But to make strategic choices or to offer strategic choices to the general director or to my colleagues, it's my business.
It's my job.
And just briefly, because I know we have to close to you, Monsieur Lea, in the United States, the teaching of library science is diminishing.
I'm wondering now if they teach
librarianship in France in terms of bibliography, handling books.
Now what they're teaching is more or less communications information, how to handle computers and computer technology.
Do you find a similar kind of attitude here in France?
It's a vast question because training schools never
up to date.
I mean, they are very often in a lot of countries, they are very often a few late in considering the state of the art, the real state of the art.
So it's very strange, but in the library schools, you may observe the late state of the art.
But we
In France, we teach bibliography, bibliographic descriptions, and we try also to introduce new modules on public.
We have a strong interest in public behaviors.
It was very important to sensibilize librarians to
public questions because sometimes the young librarians believe that it's sufficient to buy books and to put them in a very beautiful library and to open the library and always is done.
So now we make efforts to sensibilize them to the idea that it's not sufficient
You may hear what the public wants.
And the way you offer the book is very important.
Something simple.
If you put 1,000, 100,000 books in a big reading room, maybe the public don't enter in the reading room.
Because we learn that the public don't have
don't like to have a huge hill of knowledge.
People are afraid.
They go away.
It's the same with bookshops, as you see.
Most people in France prefer to have small or middle-sized bookshops and to browse.
by themselves, not to have big book supermarkets and to... Well, we're writing about this, too.
This is a great concern in the United States, where the super bookstore is driving all the independents out of business.
And we were just remarking at how wonderful all the bookstores that you have.
They're all different, and they all look like you're owned by individuals and not by enormous chains.
So it's a point we...
We insist on library teaching.
But on technology, we are searching the good way.
It's not evident.
In some years, we teach too much technology.
It was too much for libraries.
They don't need to know very carefully how the machines are running.
It's not their concern.
then they must know something about the main objectives of the software or how the market is moving.
But it's not evident because you have to move teachers.
You have to choose the teachers and to move them sometimes.
It's a very hard business.
I think we can conclude.
We have to get to our next appointment together.
This seems to me that in France, the book remains a precious object.
The book is, in that sense, not just with the attitude that you profess here, but, you know, all over.
In the bookstores, you put up monuments to Moliere.
You named streets after balzai.
The written word
And the vehicle that contains it is a precious thing, it seems to me.
Yes, we believe in that.
And we believe that we need big collections of books and new technology together.
But we cannot replace these collections by new technology.
It's the main idea.
And in the States, it's the same.
Your main remarkable libraries are made of very huge collections, even in big university libraries.
And your university adds some technology to its collections.
It's very rare to meet a library without books and only with technology.
It's happening in a few instances.
Yes, but only in a lot of disciplines.
Very specific, specialized disciplines, yes.
I'm not so sure I like it that way, but that's the end of the story.
So, I will send you the chapter when it's ready, and some articles.
And you said you have some articles.
Yes.